Update File IO page content (#6121)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/issues/issue-details/performance-issues/main-thread-io.mdx

---
title: "File IO on Main Thread for Mobile"
sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn more about File IO on Main Thread and how to diagnose and fix these issues."
---

<Include name="early-adopter-note.mdx" />

> The Main UI thread in a mobile application handles user interface events such as button presses and page scrolls. If the Main UI thread performs long-running operations like File IO, it will block the whole UI until the operation is complete, preventing the user from interacting with the app. If the Main UI thread is blocked for a long time, it can cause App Hangs and Application Not Responding errors.

Author: ```suggestion
The main UI thread in a mobile application handles user interface events such as button presses and page scrolls. To prevent App Hangs and Application Not Responding errors, the main UI thread should not be used for performing long-running operations like File IO. These kinds of operations block the whole UI until they finish running and get in the way of the user interacting with the app.
```

## Detection Criteria

The detector for this performance issue looks at the total non-overlapping duration for File IO spans. If it exceeds 16ms, a Performance Issue is created.

## Span Evidence

Span evidence identifies the root cause of the File IO on main thread problem by showing you: 

- Transaction name

> - Parent Span - Where the File IO spans occurred 
> - Offending Span - The actual spans that are performing File IO in the main thread
> 
> ![File IO Span Evidence](file-io.png)
> 

Author: ```suggestion
- Parent Span - Where the File IO spans occurred 
- Offending Span - The actual spans that are performing File IO in the main thread

![File IO Span Evidence](file-io.png)

View it by going to the **Issues** page in Sentry, selecting your Android project, clicking on the File IO error you want to examine, then scrolling down to the "Span Evidence" section in the "Details" tab.
```
2 questions here - 1. does it make sense to call this "File IO" error? How will it actually show up in the UI? And 2. Does it make sense to specify Android project (since this is an Android-specific error)?

## Example

> Consider this Swift code where you're opening a file to get its contents:

Author: ```suggestion
Here are two examples of how a File IO error may appear in your code if you're using Swift or Kotlin and how you might solve them.

This is what you might see when you're opening a file to get its contents if you're using Swift:
```

---

> title: "File IO on Main Thread for Mobile"

Author: ```suggestion
title: "File IO on Main Thread"
```

sidebar_order: 20
description: "Learn more about File IO on Main Thread and how to diagnose and fix these issues."
---

<Include name="early-adopter-note.mdx" />

> The main UI thread in a mobile application handles user interface events such as button presses and page scrolls. To prevent App Hangs and Application Not Responding errors, the main UI thread should not be used for performing long-running operations like File IO. These kinds of operations block the whole UI until they finish running and get in the way of the user interacting with the app.

Reviewer: Hmm I think its important here we mention that IO on the main thread causes app hangs & ANR. Could we do something like

```suggestion
The main UI thread in a mobile application handles user interface events such as button presses and page scrolls. To prevent App Hangs and Application Not Responding errors, the main UI thread should not be used for performing long-running operations like File IO. These kinds of operations block the whole UI until they finish running and can lead to App Hangs and Application Not Responding errors.
```

Author: That's what we had before, but I changed it because I feel like we make it clear in the sentence above so this is kind of repetitive. But if you think it helps to say it twice then I will defer to your opinion :)

## Detection Criteria

The detector for this performance issue looks at the total non-overlapping duration for File IO spans. If it exceeds 16ms, a Performance Issue is created.

## Span Evidence

> Span evidence identifies the root cause of the File IO on main thread problem by showing you: 

Author: ```suggestion
Span evidence identifies the root cause of the File IO on main thread problem by showing you three main aspects: 
```

}
```

> For Kotlin:

Author: ```suggestion
This is what you might see if you're using Kotlin:
```
